chore: update documentation for private locations, closes CLOUD-2347 #117 (#118)
gatling/frontline-cloud-doc: content/reference/user/private_locations/index.md

---
title: "Private Locations"
description: "Host Load Generators on your private AWS account"
lead: "Private Locations on your AWS account"
date: 2021-11-07T14:29:04+00:00
lastmod: 2021-11-07T14:29:04+00:00
weight: 21070
---

> A location describe where to start load generators:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A location describes where to start load generators:
```

> - Public locations are available by default, and describe by regions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Public locations are available by default, and listed by regions.
```

> - Private locations must be configured, and allow you to deploy load generators in your infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Private locations must be configured, and allow you to deploy load generators on your own infrastructure.
```

{{< alert tip >}}
Private locations allow you to load test in a private infrastructure, without any inbound connection or credential sharing.

> To access this feature, please contact our [technical support](https://gatlingcorp.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/8/group/12/create/59?summary=Private+Locations&description=Contact%20email%3A%20%3Cemail%3E%0A%0AHello%2C%20we%20would%20like%20to%20enable%20the%20private%20locations%20feature%20on%20our%20organization.).

Reviewer 2: I love this CTA!

{{< /alert >}}

## Introduction

> To configure private location, you must configure an agent in your infrastructure, called a control plane.

Reviewer 3: I would replace `control plane` with `**Control Plane**` as much as possible. To anchor this terminology in readers' minds.

> To configure private location, you must configure an agent in your infrastructure, called a control plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure private locations, you must configure an agent in your infrastructure, called a control plane.
```
(or "a private  location", but they can configure several if they want, so I'd use the plural)

> This control plane will be in charge of spawning load generators on different locations, based on the configuration you'll provide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This control plane will be in charge of spawning load generators in different locations, based on the configuration you'll provide.
```

**TO BE UPDATED!**
{{< img src="schema.png" alt="Infrastructure schema" >}}

The control plane will pull periodically from our API gateway to know if there's any run to handle that requires one (or more) locations of this control plane.

If so, it will start instances (based on the locations configurations) and start the simulation run on them. 
Those instances will send stats through the API gateway as well.

{{< alert info >}}
Only two outbounds domain must be allowed in your network:

> - The API Gateway:  `api.gatling.io` on port `443` and `10543`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The API Gateway: `api.gatling.io` on port `443` and `10543`
```

> - The API Gateway:  `api.gatling.io` on port `443` and `10543`

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't need `10543`

> - Download of the Gatling simulation on S3: `eu-west-3.amazonaws.com` on port `443`

Reviewer 2: Too late to go through our api gateway?

Author: Yes (answered in daily)

{{< /alert >}}

## Control plane configuration

### Control plane token

> Access the private locations section by clicking on the Private locations in the navigation bar (only visible if the feature is activated on your organization).

Reviewer 3: Add a visual of the pictogram  ? 
<img width="44" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24846829/200796337-09ac9fa2-6935-4ed2-8ecf-671de6b8793a.png">

I have been told to be very specific in the doc, and given the experience with a denominated Mark Webster, I tend to believe it.

Author: We don't have those custom icons in the documentation...

Reviewer 3: Just an image as the rest of the screenshots ?

Reviewer 2: @franciscotco The icon library?

Reviewer 4: The icon library is not available for the documentation, do we need a specific screenshot?

Click on create control plane, and fill an unique identifier. (only lowercase, separated by underscores)

{{< img src="create-control-plane.png" alt="Create control plane" >}}

On the next modal, make sure to copy the control plane token, you’ll need it later.

{{< img src="copy-token.png" alt="Copy control plane token" >}}

You can see the control plane you just created under the Control planes tab.

{{< img src="control-planes-uninitialized.png" alt="Control Planes table" >}}

> It's defined by an unique identifier, a description (provided by its configuration) and a status.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's defined by an unique identifier, a description (provided later on, by its configuration) and a status.
```

Status have three possible value:

> - **Uninitialized:** Control plane never reach the application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Uninitialized:** Control plane never reached the application.
```

> - **Up:** Control plane is properly configured, and reach the application with his configured private locations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Up:** Control plane is properly configured, uploaded its private locations configuration, and reaches periodically the application to fetch new runs.
```

> - **Uninitialized:** Control plane never reached the application.
> - **Up:** Control plane is properly configured, uploaded its private locations configuration, and reaches periodically the application to fetch new runs.
> - **Down:** Control plane has been up, but didn't reach the application for a while.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Uninitialized:** the control plane has never contacted the application
- **Up:** The control plane is properly configured, has uploaded the names of its configured private locations, and periodically calls the application to fetch new runs.
- **Down:** The control plane has been up, but hasn't called the application for a while.
```
grammar: present perfect rather than past simple, because we are dealing with the present consequences of a past action (helpful table: https://www.perfect-english-grammar.com/present-perfect-or-past-simple.html).

I think it's confusing to say that the control plane "uploaded its private locations configuration" - kinda implies it would;upload their AWS configuration...

### Control plane deployment

> Control plane agent is distributed as docker image: `gatlingcorp/control-plane`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Control plane agent is distributed as docker image: [`gatlingcorp/control-plane`](https://hub.docker.com/r/gatlingcorp/control-plane)
```

> Control plane agent is distributed as docker image: `gatlingcorp/control-plane`
> And are configured by a file mounted at `/app/conf/control-plane.conf`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The control plane agent is distributed as a docker image: `gatlingcorp/control-plane`.
It is configured by a file mounted at `/app/conf/control-plane.conf`.
```

The name should probably be a link to the page on DockerHub too?

{{< alert info >}}

> Configuration use [HOCON](https://github.com/lightbend/config/blob/master/HOCON.md) (Human-Optimized Config Object Notation):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration file uses the [HOCON format](https://github.com/lightbend/config/blob/master/HOCON.md) (Human-Optimized Config Object Notation).
```

> Configuration use [HOCON](https://github.com/lightbend/config/blob/master/HOCON.md) (Human-Optimized Config Object Notation):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The configuration use [HOCON format (Human-Optimized Config Object Notation)](https://github.com/lightbend/config/blob/master/HOCON.md).
```

{{< /alert >}}

Example with an AWS pool (only supported type at the moment):
{{< include-code "control-plane.conf" hocon >}}

Only **Control Plane** and locations ID, description and type are transferred to Gatling Enterprise Cloud.

## Managing Control Planes on Gatling Enterprise Cloud

> Once configured, your **Control Plane** status should be `Up`, details are available by clicking on the {{< icon eye >}} button.
> Token can be refresh by clicking on the {{< icon undo >}} button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once configured and running, your **Control Plane** status should go `Up` within a few seconds, details are available by clicking on the {{< icon eye >}} button.
Tokens can be refresh by clicking on the {{< icon undo >}} button.
```

{{< img src="control-plane-details.png" alt="Control Planes details" >}}

Private locations can be seen in the Locations tab.
You can see their relations to their **Control Plane** and simulations.

{{< img src="locations-table.png" alt="Locations table" >}}

> They're deletable if they're neither linked to a **Control Plane** that is not `Up` and any simulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They can be deleted if they are neither linked to a **Control Plane** that is currently `Up` nor to any simulation.
```
Maybe not the best formulation, but you at least need to remove the wrong double negative ("not linked to a control plane which is not up").

# Simulation configuration

When [configuring a simulation](link), on the locations step, click on private.

{{< img src="simulation-config.png" alt="Simulation configuration of private locations" >}}

{{< alert info >}}

> At the moment, it's not possible to use private locations along public ones.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At the moment, it's not possible to use private locations along with public ones.
```

{{< /alert >}}

# Credit consumption

> 

Reviewer 2: Next file (content/reference/user/simulations/images/create-simulation-locations.png) should not be updated right now.

We don't know yet how to show the new feature for those who don't have access to it

> Private locations consume as much credit as the public ones: one credit, per load generator, per minute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Private locations consume as credits like public locations: one credit, per load generator, per minute.
```
No need to insist on "as much", it makes it sound expensive. ^^
